48 rfc 6763 constrains the use of srv records (#49)
AMWA-TV/nmos-dns-sd-implementation-guide: docs/Example HOWTO.md

             604800 )   ; Negative Cache TTL
```

Then we define our DNS server for this zone. Endpoints should be configured with this DNS server.

```
; DNS server

> example.com        IN      NS      dns1.example.com.

Author: ```suggestion
                   IN      NS      dns1.example.com.
```

> example.com        IN      NS      dns1.example.com.

Author: ```suggestion
example.com.        IN      NS      dns1.example.com.
```

> example.com        IN      NS      dns1.example.com.

Author: ```suggestion
example.com.        IN      NS      dns1.example.com.
```

Now we add `SRV` records that return the URL for the registration and query servers.  In this case, both of the records point to `rds1.example.com`.

```

> ; NMOS RDS and Query Services       Type   Priority  Weight   Port   Host 
> reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp        SRV     10        10      80    rds1.example.com.
> qry-api-1._nmos-query._tcp           SRV     10        10      80    rds1.example.com.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
; NMOS Registration and Query Services       Type   Priority  Weight   Port   Host 
reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp.example.com.     SRV     10        10      80    rds1.example.com.
qry-api-1._nmos-query._tcp.example.com.        SRV     10        10      80    rds1.example.com.
```

; NMOS RDS and Query Services       Type   Priority  Weight   Port   Host 
reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp        SRV     10        10      80    rds1.example.com.
qry-api-1._nmos-query._tcp           SRV     10        10      80    rds1.example.com.
```

We add `TXT` records which provide information relevant to the IS-04 specification

```
; Additional metadata relevant to the IS-04 specification. See IS-04 specification section "Discovery: Registered Operation"
reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp.example.com.        TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=0" "api_auth=false"

> qry-api-1._nmos-query._tcp.example.com.           TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=0" "api_auth=false"

Reviewer: I see that you've removed the `.example.com.` suffix from many of the records. I'm not aware of when that's allowed/appropriate, please would you explain?

Author: I did a bit of experimenting and looks like we could remove all example.com.(s) from the database file and still dig works. Didn't go much further but for the interest of consistency I'll add in the example.com. for all the items in the db file. I'm thinking since the domain is defined in named.conf that BIND9 uses this for queries of the form dig .. xxx.example.com  but better to be safe I think and put in the dull domain.

Reviewer: Make sense, thanks, Randy

```

We add records which associate the NMOS register and NMOS query with the RDS.
```
; RDS                              TTL     Class  SRV  Priority  Weight  Port  Target
_nmos-register._tcp.example.com.     3600    IN     SRV  10        20      80    rds1.example.com.

> _nmos-query._tcp.example.com.        3600    IN     SRV  10        20      80    rds1.example.com.

Reviewer: It was specifically these lines which I think are prohibited by RFC 6763, so thanks for deleting them.

Author: No problem

> reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp        TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=0" "api_auth=false"

Author: ```suggestion
reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp.example.com.        TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=0" "api_auth=false"
```

> qry-api-1._nmos-query._tcp           TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=0" "api_auth=false"

Author: ```suggestion
qry-api-1._nmos-query._tcp.example.com.           TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=0" "api_auth=false"
```

;; WHEN: Tue Jul 13 19:58:50 IST 2021
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 134
```
### Using Dig to Browse NMOS Related DNS Items

We can use `dig` to do a top down browse of the NMOS services being served by BIND9. First we simply 
check if our DNS is offering up the NMOS services by looking at all the pointers to services our DNS is 
providing:

```

> $dig _services._dns-sd._udp.example.com PTR

Reviewer: Does the `$` here and in a few of the snippets below indicate a command prompt? Should it be the same as the snippets above which use `#` followed by a space?

> $dig _services._dns-sd._udp.example.com PTR

Author: ```suggestion
# dig _services._dns-sd._udp.example.com PTR
```

Author: Fixed this

> $dig _services._dns-sd._udp.example.com PTR

Author: ```suggestion
# dig _services._dns-sd._udp.example.com PTR
```

> $dig _services._dns-sd._udp.example.com PTR

Author: ```suggestion
# dig _services._dns-sd._udp.example.com PTR
```

; <<>> DiG 9.11.4-P2-RedHat-9.11.4-26.P2.amzn2.5.2 <<>> PTR _services._dns-sd._udp.example.com
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 4132
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 2, AUTHORITY: 1, ADDITIONAL: 2

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;_services._dns-sd._udp.example.com. IN	PTR

;; ANSWER SECTION:
_services._dns-sd._udp.example.com. 3600 IN PTR	_nmos-query._tcp.example.com.
_services._dns-sd._udp.example.com. 3600 IN PTR	_nmos-register._tcp.example.com.

;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
example.com.		3600	IN	NS	dns1.example.com.

;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
dns1.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.18

;; Query time: 0 msec
;; SERVER: 10.0.50.59#53(10.0.50.59)
;; WHEN: Fri Sep 02 13:02:59 UTC 2022
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 158

```

We see in the ANSWER section that our DNS has the two entries we included in our BIND9 database file for our NMOS registry and NMOS query type services.

### Checking the `PTR` records

Next we use dig to query the DNS for PTR records associated 
with the entries obtained in our last step. 

```

> $dig _nmos-register._tcp.example.com PTR

Reviewer: And specifically this example which was relying on those invalid SRV records to skip the PTR indirect. This looks better to me, thanks.

Author: Yep

> $dig _nmos-register._tcp.example.com PTR

Author: ```suggestion
# dig _nmos-register._tcp.example.com PTR
```

> $dig _nmos-register._tcp.example.com PTR

Author: ```suggestion
# dig _nmos-register._tcp.example.com PTR
```

; <<>> DiG 9.11.4-P2-RedHat-9.11.4-26.P2.amzn2.5.2 <<>> _nmos-register._tcp.example.com PTR
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 60489
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 1, ADDITIONAL: 2

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;_nmos-register._tcp.example.com. IN	PTR

;; ANSWER SECTION:
_nmos-register._tcp.example.com. 3600 IN PTR	reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp.example.com.

;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
example.com.		3600	IN	NS	dns1.example.com.

;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
dns1.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.18

;; Query time: 0 msec
;; SERVER: 10.0.50.59#53(10.0.50.59)
;; WHEN: Fri Sep 02 13:18:03 UTC 2022
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 119
```

### Checking the `SRV` records

Finally we can resolve the actual host IP and port for the returned registry using

```

> $dig reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp.example.com SRV

Author: ```suggestion
# dig reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp.example.com SRV
```

; <<>> DiG 9.11.4-P2-RedHat-9.11.4-26.P2.amzn2.5.2 <<>> reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp.example.com SRV
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 25267
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 1, ADDITIONAL: 3

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp.example.com. IN SRV

;; ANSWER SECTION:
reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp.example.com. 3600	IN SRV 10 10 80 rds1.example.com.

;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
example.com.		3600	IN	NS	dns1.example.com.

;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
rds1.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.50
dns1.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.18

;; Query time: 0 msec
;; SERVER: 10.0.50.59#53(10.0.50.59)
;; WHEN: Fri Sep 02 13:19:23 UTC 2022
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 157

```

The Additional section contains the resolved IP address for the host while the answer section shows we have the correct port that we included in the BIND9 database.

> ## Providing Back-up DNS (BIND) Servers

Reviewer: Since this section covers both redundant DNS and redundant RDS...

```suggestion
## Providing Back-up Servers
```

; Lower Priority Registration Service
reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com.     TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=20" "api_auth=false"
```

Take advice from the RDS vendor about how to set the priority and weight.
If active-active is available in the RDS servers, then these records can be used to provide load-balancing.

In all cases above the `SRV` records are identifying a port number of `80`.
This would suit default HTTP access.
For HTTPS access (see [BCP-003-01](https://specs.amwa.tv/bcp-003-01)) this would be set to `443`, and the `TXT` records would include `api_proto=https`.
Again, this would be a question for the RDS vendor.

Lastly we provide the IP addresses for the hosts in the system.
This file can of course be expanded to contain names for all the hosts, endpoints, and switches in the system, making debugging simpler.

```
; Nameserver records    Class  Type     Target
dns1.example.com.         IN     A      192.168.0.18
dns2.example.com.         IN     A      192.168.0.20
rds1.example.com.         IN     A      192.168.0.50
rds2.example.com.         IN     A      192.168.0.51
```

> ### Checking the `DNS` records for Multiple RDSs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Checking the DNS records for Multiple RDSs
```

```
# dig _nmos-register._tcp.example.com PTR
 <<>> DiG 9.11.4-P2-RedHat-9.11.4-26.P2.amzn2.5.2 <<>> _nmos-register._tcp.example.com PTR
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 48397
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 2, AUTHORITY: 2, ADDITIONAL: 3

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;_nmos-register._tcp.example.com. IN	PTR

;; ANSWER SECTION:
_nmos-register._tcp.example.com. 3600 IN PTR	reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com.
_nmos-register._tcp.example.com. 3600 IN PTR	reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp.example.com.

;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
example.com.		3600	IN	NS	dns2.example.com.
example.com.		3600	IN	NS	dns1.example.com.

;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
dns1.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.18
dns2.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.20

;; Query time: 0 msec
;; SERVER: 10.0.50.59#53(10.0.50.59)
;; WHEN: Tue Sep 06 07:29:22 UTC 2022
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 178
```

As can be seen the DNS server provides two PTRs to the query.
Details on prioritization and TXT can be checked as well:

> 

Author: ```suggestion
First we query for the SRV.
```

```
# dig reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com SRV

; <<>> DiG 9.11.4-P2-RedHat-9.11.4-26.P2.amzn2.5.2 <<>> reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com SRV
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 5862
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 2, ADDITIONAL: 4

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com. IN SRV

;; ANSWER SECTION:
reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com. 3600	IN SRV 20 10 80 rds2.example.com.

;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
example.com.		3600	IN	NS	dns1.example.com.
example.com.		3600	IN	NS	dns2.example.com.

;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
rds2.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.51
dns1.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.18
dns2.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.20

;; Query time: 0 msec
;; SERVER: 10.0.50.59#53(10.0.50.59)
;; WHEN: Tue Sep 06 07:32:09 UTC 2022
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 192
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

And now the TXT record for the same service:

```
# dig reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com TXT

; <<>> DiG 9.11.4-P2-RedHat-9.11.4-26.P2.amzn2.5.2 <<>> reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com TXT
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 41920
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 2, ADDITIONAL: 3

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com. IN TXT

;; ANSWER SECTION:
reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com. 3600	IN TXT "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=20" "api_auth=false"

;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
example.com.		3600	IN	NS	dns2.example.com.
example.com.		3600	IN	NS	dns1.example.com.

;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
dns1.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.18
dns2.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.20

;; Query time: 0 msec
;; SERVER: 10.0.50.59#53(10.0.50.59)
;; WHEN: Tue Sep 13 09:59:12 UTC 2022
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 217

```

```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

And now the TXT record for the same service:

```
# dig reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com TXT

; <<>> DiG 9.11.4-P2-RedHat-9.11.4-26.P2.amzn2.5.2 <<>> reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com TXT
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 41920
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 2, ADDITIONAL: 3

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com. IN TXT

;; ANSWER SECTION:
reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com. 3600	IN TXT "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=20" "api_auth=false"

;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
example.com.		3600	IN	NS	dns2.example.com.
example.com.		3600	IN	NS	dns1.example.com.

;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
dns1.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.18
dns2.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.20

;; Query time: 0 msec
;; SERVER: 10.0.50.59#53(10.0.50.59)
;; WHEN: Tue Sep 13 09:59:12 UTC 2022
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 217

```

```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
And now the TXT record for the same service:

```
# dig reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com TXT

; <<>> DiG 9.11.4-P2-RedHat-9.11.4-26.P2.amzn2.5.2 <<>> reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com TXT
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 41920
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 2, ADDITIONAL: 3

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com. IN TXT

;; ANSWER SECTION:
reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com. 3600	IN TXT "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=20" "api_auth=false"

;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
example.com.		3600	IN	NS	dns2.example.com.
example.com.		3600	IN	NS	dns1.example.com.

;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
dns1.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.18
dns2.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.20

;; Query time: 0 msec
;; SERVER: 10.0.50.59#53(10.0.50.59)
;; WHEN: Tue Sep 13 09:59:12 UTC 2022
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 217

```

```

### Complete BIND9 Database File

Below is the complete BIND9 domain file described above.
Configuring your BIND9 domain with this file should allow you to verify your setup for an example.com domain.
To set up for a different domain, the changes to the file would be minimal.

```
; We begin by defining several required DNS parameters.

$TTL 3600
@       IN      SOA     dns1.example.com. admin.example.com. (
           20210713     ; Serial
               3600     ; Refresh
                600     ; Retry
            2419200     ; Expire
             604800 )   ; Negative Cache TTL

; Then we define our DNS servers for this zone.
; Endpoints should be configured with one or both of these DNS servers.

; DNS servers

> example.com        IN      NS      dns1.example.com.

Author: ```suggestion
                   IN      NS      dns1.example.com.
```

> example.com        IN      NS      dns1.example.com.

Author: ```suggestion
example.com.        IN      NS      dns1.example.com.
```

> example.com        IN      NS      dns2.example.com.

Author: ```suggestion
                   IN      NS      dns2.example.com.
```

> example.com        IN      NS      dns2.example.com.

Author: ```suggestion
example.com.        IN      NS      dns2.example.com.
```

_nmos-register._tcp     PTR     reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp
_nmos-register._tcp     PTR     reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp
_nmos-query._tcp        PTR     qry-api-1._nmos-query._tcp

;Now we add `SRV` records that return the URL for the registration and query servers.  In this case, both of the records point to `rds1.example.com`.

; NMOS RDS services
; High Priority RDS                             TTL   Class  SRV  Priority  Weight  Port     Target
reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp.example.com.     3600    IN    SRV     10       10      80      rds1.example.com.

; Lower Priority RDS
reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com.     3600    IN    SRV     20       10      80      rds2.example.com.

qry-api-1._nmos-query._tcp           SRV     10        10      80    rds1.example.com.

;We add `TXT` records which provide information relevant to the IS-04 specification

; Additional metadata relevant to the IS-04 specification. See IS-04 specification section "Discovery: Registered Operation"
reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp        TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=10" "api_auth=false"

> reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp        TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=20" "api_auth=false"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com.        TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=20" "api_auth=false"
```

rds1.example.com.    IN      A       192.168.0.50
rds2.example.com.    IN      A       192.168.0.51
```
### Checking the `DNS` records for Multiple RDSs

```

> $dig _nmos-register._tcp.example.com PTR

Author: ```suggestion
# dig _nmos-register._tcp.example.com PTR
```

> $dig _nmos-register._tcp.example.com PTR

Author: ```suggestion
# dig _nmos-register._tcp.example.com PTR
```

 <<>> DiG 9.11.4-P2-RedHat-9.11.4-26.P2.amzn2.5.2 <<>> _nmos-register._tcp.example.com PTR
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 48397
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 2, AUTHORITY: 2, ADDITIONAL: 3

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;_nmos-register._tcp.example.com. IN	PTR

;; ANSWER SECTION:
_nmos-register._tcp.example.com. 3600 IN PTR	reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com.
_nmos-register._tcp.example.com. 3600 IN PTR	reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp.example.com.

;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
example.com.		3600	IN	NS	dns2.example.com.
example.com.		3600	IN	NS	dns1.example.com.

;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
dns1.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.18
dns2.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.20

;; Query time: 0 msec
;; SERVER: 10.0.50.59#53(10.0.50.59)
;; WHEN: Tue Sep 06 07:29:22 UTC 2022
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 178

```

> As can be seen the DNS server provides two PTRs to the query.  Details on prioritization and TXT can be checked as well:

Reviewer: The following snippet doesn't seem to include checking the `TXT` records?

Author: Will rerun this section as overall verification of the final DNS BIND9 database file below.

Author: hi @garethsb  - I reran the test sections with the full BIND9 db and found one problem that I corrected in the merge request.  If you can take a quick look at those two then I think we are ready for the merge?  (Needed the . at the end of the NS resource record for example.com.)

Reviewer: Great! Should we add a `dig` for the `TXT` records as well as the `SRV` though?

```

> $dig reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com SRV

Author: ```suggestion
# dig reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com SRV
```

; <<>> DiG 9.11.4-P2-RedHat-9.11.4-26.P2.amzn2.5.2 <<>> reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com SRV
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 5862
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 2, ADDITIONAL: 4

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com. IN SRV

;; ANSWER SECTION:
reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com. 3600	IN SRV 20 10 80 rds2.example.com.

;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
example.com.		3600	IN	NS	dns1.example.com.
example.com.		3600	IN	NS	dns2.example.com.

;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
rds2.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.51
dns1.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.18
dns2.example.com.	3600	IN	A	192.168.0.20

;; Query time: 0 msec
;; SERVER: 10.0.50.59#53(10.0.50.59)
;; WHEN: Tue Sep 06 07:32:09 UTC 2022
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 192

```
### Complete BIND9 Database File

> Below is the complete BIND9 domain file described about.  Configuring your BIND9 domain with this file should allow you to verify your setup for an example.com domain. To setup for a different domain then changes to the file are minimal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is the complete BIND9 domain file described above. Configuring your BIND9 domain with this file should allow you to verify your setup for an example.com domain. To set up for a different domain, the changes to the file would be minimal.
```

```

;We begin by defining several required DNS parameters.

$TTL 3600
@       IN      SOA     dns1.example.com. admin.example.com. (
           20210713     ; Serial
               3600     ; Refresh
                600     ; Retry
            2419200     ; Expire
             604800 )   ; Negative Cache TTL

> ;Then we define our DNS servers for this zone. End-points should be configured with one or both of these DNS server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
;Then we define our DNS servers for this zone. End-points should be configured with one or both of these DNS servers.
```

; DNS servers
        IN      NS      dns1.example.com.
        IN      NS      dns2.example.com.

;We add the following PTR records to indicate the server supports Service Discovery.  Clients looking for DNS-SD support will query the server for these specific records (`b` is for `browse`,  `lb` is for `legacy browse`.)

; These lines indicate to clients that this server supports DNS Service Discovery
b._dns-sd._udp  IN      PTR     @
lb._dns-sd._udp IN      PTR     @

;Next we define the NMOS services provided by this server:

; These lines indicate to clients which NMOS service types this server advertises:
_services._dns-sd._udp  PTR     _nmos-register._tcp
_services._dns-sd._udp  PTR     _nmos-query._tcp

;There should be one `PTR` record for each instance of the service you wish to advertise. 

> ; Here we have  service available through the Registration API and one service available through the Query API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
; Here we have two instances of the Registration API service and one instance of the Query API service:
```

Author: accepted changes

_nmos-register._tcp     PTR     reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp
_nmos-register._tcp     PTR     reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp
_nmos-query._tcp        PTR     qry-api-1._nmos-query._tcp

> ;Now we add `SRV` records that return the URL for the registration and query servers.  In this case, both of the records point to `rds1.example.com`.

Reviewer: Comment seems to be outdated?

Author: modified the comments

> ;Now we add `SRV` records that return the URL for the registration and query servers.  In this case, both of the records point to `rds1.example.com`.

Author: ```suggestion
;Now we add `SRV` records that return the targets for the tow registration servers  and the query server. 
```

; NMOS RDS and Query Services       Type   Priority  Weight   Port   Host 
;reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp        SRV     10        10      80    rds1.example.com.
;reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp        SRV     20        10      80    rds2.example.com.

> 

Reviewer: Are these commented out `SRV` records needed?

Author: Removed

; NMOS RDS services
; High Priority RDS                             TTL   Class  SRV  Priority  Weight  Port     Target
reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp.example.com.     3600    IN    SRV     10       10      80      rds1.example.com.

; Lower Priority RDS
reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com.     3600    IN    SRV     20       10      80      rds2.example.com.

> qry-api-1._nmos-query._tcp           SRV     10        10      80    rds1.example.com.

Reviewer: Should we have these two different styles of `SRV` records?

Author: Corrected

> qry-api-1._nmos-query._tcp           SRV     10        10      80    rds1.example.com.

Author: ```suggestion
qry-api-1._nmos-query._tcp.example.com.      3600        SRV     10        10      80    rds1.example.com.
```

> qry-api-1._nmos-query._tcp           SRV     10        10      80    rds1.example.com.

Author: ```suggestion
qry-api-1._nmos-register._tcp.example.com.     3600    IN    SRV     10       10      80      rds1.example.com.
```

Author: Corrected

;We add `TXT` records which provide information relevant to the IS-04 specification

; Additional metadata relevant to the IS-04 specification. See IS-04 specification section "Discovery: Registered Operation"

> reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp        TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=10" "api_auth=false"

Author: ```suggestion
reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp.example.com.        TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=10" "api_auth=false"
```

> reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp        TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=10" "api_auth=false"

Author: ```suggestion
reg-api-1._nmos-register._tcp.example.com.        TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=10" "api_auth=false"
```

> reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp        TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=https" "pri=20" "api_auth=false"

Reviewer: I don't think you intended to show `api_proto=https` for `reg-api-02`, based on the rest of the example?

```suggestion
reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp        TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=20" "api_auth=false"
```

Author: Yep - was experimenting to verify I was getting the correct TXT record and changed this to https.

> reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp        TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=https" "pri=20" "api_auth=false"

Author: ```suggestion
reg-api-2._nmos-register._tcp.example.com.        TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=https" "pri=20" "api_auth=false"
```

> qry-api-1._nmos-query._tcp           TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=0" "api_auth=false"

Author: ```suggestion
qry-api-1._nmos-query._tcp.example.com.           TXT     "api_ver=v1.0,v1.1,v1.2,v1.3" "api_proto=http" "pri=0" "api_auth=false"
```

> ;In both cases above the `SRV` records tell clients to access the server using port `80`. This would suit default HTTP access, but if HTTPS is used, this would need to be changed to `443`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
;In both cases above the `SRV` records tell clients to access the server using port `80`. This would suit default HTTP access (indicated by `api_proto=http` in the `TXT` records). If HTTPS is used, this would need to be changed to `443`.
```
